Both the Holt's Linear Trend and
Exponential Trend Methods are great for
forecasting a time series
without seasonality.
Sometimes however, our model can over
forecast results since the forecast
generated display a constant trend line
extrapolating values into the future.
Damped Trend Methods are a solution
that implements a parameter
that dampens the trend line into a flat
line, some time into the future.
And they can be both applied in
additively and multiplicative fashions.
You'll hear this dampening
parameter be called Phi.
Models with small values of
Phi assume that the trend line
changes only very slowly over time.
While models with larger Phi,
assume that it's changing more rapidly.
If you're unsure if a damped
method should be implemented,
then you can run a damped model and
its original version side by side, and
then check the forecasted errors to see
which one fits your time series better.
We'll jump into model comparison at
a later lesson, but with time series
forecasting, we'll be testing numerous
models against the same series.